---
title: Microsoft 365 – Word Transcription
parent: Transcription Options | Map and Data Library
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

A. [Microsoft 365 – Word Transcription](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/transcribe-your-recordings-7fc2efec-245e-45f0-b053-2a97531ecf57)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Summary:** Microsoft Word 365 online works with both audio and video files and is available to UofT faculty, staff, and students. You can use the transcribe feature to get a Word document transcript with just text, speaker names, timestamps, or speaker names and timestamps.

**Instructions:**

1. Go to [Word 365 online](https://www.office.com/launch/word?auth=2&home=1).
2. Enter in your UofT email address. Then it will take you to a page where you will log in using your UTORID credentials.
3. Create a new blank document.
4. Click on drop-down arrow next to the Dictate icon (i.e., the microphone icon) from Home Ribbon Menu, then select Transcribe.
5. From the right-side box, pick your language and upload your audio or video file.
6. You will see a progress bar as it transcribes - takes a bit of time, but pretty fast. Wait for it to be done.
7. When done, you should see a preview of the transcription.
8. Below the transcription, click on the drop-down arrow next to the Add to Document button.
9. Select the option you want: just text, with speakers, with timestamps, with speakers and timestamps. It will then add the transcript to the Word document that you can then edit and/or download.
10. It will then add the transcript to the Word document that you can then edit and/or download.

**Note:** **Currently, there is a limit of 300 minutes per month per user.** (In the past, Microsoft offered unlimited minutes, but that has unfortunately changed.)