---
title: Zoom
parent: Transcription Options | Map and Data Library
layout: default
nav_order: 3
---

C. [Zoom](https://utoronto.zoom.us/)
-----------------------------------

**Summary**: Zoom works with both audio and video files and is available to UofT faculty, staff, and students. You can also use Zoom to capture your audio and video recordings. You generally have two options:

1. Create transcripts live
2. Create transcripts from cloud recordings (Note, though, that [undergraduate students can’t record to cloud](https://teaching.utoronto.ca/tool-guides/zoom/))

**Instructions**:

1. First decide if you are going to use Zoom to also capture your audio or video recordings of an interview, focus group, etc. If so, start your Zoom meeting
2. If instead you have an audio or video file you captured from somewhere else, use Zoom to host a meeting for one, [share your screen, including system audio](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0063608), and be ready to play your video or audio files (as if presenting a webinar)
3. In either case, once you are ready to proceed, follow the steps below for Option 1 or 2

Option 1: [Live Captioning](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0063899)

1. Turn on live captioning by going to the drop-down arrow next to the Show Captions option in the Zoom menu, and selecting the language for your captions
2. Then you can either Show/Hide Captions by toggling that option in the Zoom menu. Toggle the captions so that they are hidden (but are happening in the background)
3. Zoom will auto caption it live. You can download the transcript when it is done, by selecting View Full Transcript from the drop-down menu for Show Captions
4. Click on the Save transcript button at the bottom of the transcript window. This results in a text file you can download
5. If you were the only person in the meeting, it will tag all the text with your Zoom name. You would have to edit it if you wanted to label appropriate speaker names. If you were conducting your interview live, then it should automatically label appropriate speaker names

Option 2: [Cloud Recording Transcription](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0064927)

1. Record your meeting to the cloud by click on the More options in the Zoom menu and selecting Record -> Record to the cloud
2. Conduct your meeting as normal and then leave the meeting when you are done. You will get notified when the recording is ready
3. Go to the web view of [UofT’s Zoom](https://utoronto.zoom.us/) and login with your account
4. Select Recordings & Transcripts from the left menu
5. Select the title of the meeting you just recorded. This screen will tell you if the recording is still being transcribed or if it is done. If it says unable to transcribe, make sure to select your language by hovering over audio transcript
6. When it is ready, you can select Audio transcript to download a VTT file with timestamps and speaker labels.
7. If you were the only person in the meeting, it will tag all the text with your Zoom name. You would have to edit it if you wanted to label appropriate speaker names. If you were conducting your interview live, then it should automatically label appropriate speaker names