---
title: Microsoft 365 - Clipchamp Transcription
parent: Transcription Options | Map and Data Library
layout: default
nav_order: 4
---

D. [Microsoft 365 - Clipchamp Transcription](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/microsoft-stream-automatically-creates-closed-captions-for-videos-8d6ac353-9ff2-4e2b-bca1-329499455308)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Summary:** Clipchamp is an option available to UofT faculty, staff, and students that works with videos files only to create VTT files (captions with text and timestamps). Generally, VTT files are not transcripts, but can help you speed up the process of creating transcripts, in some cases.

**Instructions:**

1. Go to [Clipchamp 365 online](https://www.microsoft365.com/launch/clipchamp?auth=2).
2. Enter in your UofT email address. Then it will take you to a page where you will log in using your UTORID credentials.
3. Once logged in, either select your video from the content list of videos in your OneDrive OR you can click on Upload on the left, next to the Screen recording button to upload a new file. Browse to your video file and select it to upload.
4. Once uploaded and showing up in the content list, click on it to play in Clipchamp.
5. Click on Video settings on the Right.
6. Expand the Transcript and captions section by clicking on its drop-down arrow.
7. Click on Generate and select the language to generate captions.
8. Once finished, you should see the captions listed in that section saying the language and below “Generated by Microsoft”. Close the Video settings.
9. If you click on the Transcript option that is now available on the right, you can view the video and transcript side-by-side if you want to make any edits.
10. When done, go back to Video Settings, to the Transcript and captions section. Next to the generated caption listed, click on the … icon for those captions, and select Download to download as a .docx or .vtt file.

But note that there won’t be any speakers’ names in the file; you would have to add those manually if you wanted them. Because you’ll have to add speaker names and timestamp divisions might not occur at a change in speaker, this could be a labour-intensive process to augment and clean up, depending on your file (for example, there would be a lot more cleanup required for a focus group transcript). Also, Clipchamp seems to generate more timestamp divisions than other tools.

Also, as mentioned, this only works for video files – see the Notes on [Converting Audio Only Files to Videos](https://mdl.library.utoronto.ca/technology/tutorials/transcription-options#Convert_Audio) section, if needed.

